New Alien Species: the Jibauni (#10867)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/jibauni/jibauni 0 kanlanmo transport.txt

# Copyright (c) 2024 by Loymdayddaud
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

mission "Jibauni: Kanlanmo 0"
	name "Take Kanlanmo to <planet>"
	description "Kanlanmo, who is a Jibauni in the shape of a Tyrannosaurus Rex, has asked to go to <planet> on your ship. He will explain more once you get there."
	landing
	source "Baitoon"
	destination "Taltahard"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Your landing location is a large set of old landing pads in the middle of a city, as there doesn't seem to be anywhere else available for spaceships to arrive. The city is filled with dinosaurs in the shape of the mythical Tyrannosaurus Rex, although here smaller then in old Earth fables. Soon after you land, one of these dinosaurs, wearing a dark green cloak, approaches your ship.`

Reviewer: Your ship passes uncomfortably close to precarious trapezoidal skyscrapers as you carefully set down on a large landing pad in the center of a bustling alien metropolis. As you step out into the bright light of this world's red sun, you're struck by how little attention the denizens here pay to the landing and launching of ships so close to their urban infrastructure.
Even more surprising though, is the appearance of the species native to this world. They look remarkably similar to images you have seen of ancient dinosaurs that once roamed Earth. More specifically, they look like the dreaded Tyrannosaurus Rex, though much smaller in scale. In fact, they are only a feet taller than you. 
After a moment of unrepentant gawking, one of these alien dinosaurs peels away from the others, and approaches your ship. The fearsome creature's jaw is slightly open in a sinister grin that displays it's long white teeth. Somewhat incongruently, it is also covered by a comfortable looking green knitted cloak.

> 			`The approach to your landing location takes the ship uncomfortably close to huge trapezoidal skyscrapers, finally landing in the very midst of the city. The alien metropolis is filled with dinosaurs in the shape of the mythical Tyrannosaurus Rex, although here smaller then in old Earth fables. Soon after you land, one of these dinosaurs, incongruently wearing a dark green cloak, approaches your ship.`

Reviewer: I don't think it's accurate to describe a T-Rex as 'mythical' or from 'fables'. That's how you'd describe a Troll. T-Rex was never in any myths, and would only be a character in modern 'fables'.

			choice
				`	(Go out and meet it.)`
					goto meeting
				`	(Leave now, before something bad happens.)`
					depart
				`	(Stay in <ship>.)`

> 			`	The dinosaur opens its mouth, and a moment later a growling sound rumbles through the air. Then you hear the words, "Could you exit your ship to consult with me?"`

Reviewer: The beast opens its terrifying maw, exposing you both to it's ghastly breath, and dagger-like teeth, thankfully within the confines of your ship, you outside the range of it's killer jaws. Instead of lunging though, it instead makes a deep growling rumbling sound that makes your very bones vibrate. A moment later though, you hear a compressed and metallic say, "Could you exit your ship and consult with me?"

Author: I'm not sure I like all of this updated version, as it implies the dinosaur wants to eat you when it has no such intention.
But I'll add some of it.

Reviewer: Okay. Use what you want. I would add that it isn't implied that the dinosaur wants to eat you, though. It's stated that when an alien/T-Rex approaches you, it's difficult for you not to think it wants to eat you. Like if a Mountain Lion approached you in real life. You don't know what it actually wants, but with its big powerful jaw and sharp teeth - you're naturally going to worry it wants to eat/bite/attack you.

				to display
					not "language: Coalition"
				goto initialchoice1
			action
				set "jibauni knowledge: the Jibauni have Heliarch translators"

> 			`	The dinosaur opens its mouth to say something, and you hear a growling sound. Then you notice that it has a Coalition translator box around its neck. Before you can do anything the box says, "Could you exit your ship to consult with me?"`

Reviewer: `	The dinosaur-like alien's terrifying maw opens wide and unleashes a deep growling sound that causes your very bones to vibrate. Although it's difficult to pry your eyes from the rows of fearsome carnivorous teeth on display, you're drawn to light reflecting off a metallic bauble danging from the alien's neck. To your surprise, you recognize the Coalition translator device; it whirs to life and a squeaky artificial voice says, "Could you exit your ship to consult with me?"`

			label initialchoice1
			choice
				`	(Go outside of the <ship> and meet the strange beast.)`
					goto meeting
				`	(Leave the planet.)`
					defer
			label meeting

> 			`	"Hello, fair stranger," it says. "Is there a way I may serve you on this delightful day?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You find yourself looking up into the large dagger-toothed maw of a creature that could easily tear you apart with a single thought. Fresh saliva oozes out of it's rancid mouth as it rumbles something incomprehensible at you. This is quickly followed by much quieter, oddly accented voice saying,  "Hello, fair stranger. Is there a way I may serve you on this delightful day?"`
```

			label meetingquestions
			choice
				`	"My name is <first> <last>, and I come in peace."`
					goto lastisknown
				`	"How do you have a Coalition translator?"`
					to display
						has "jibauni knowledge: the Jibauni have Heliarch translators"
						not "asked about the Jibauni translators"
					goto cotrans
				`	"Hi, weirdo. What's up?"`
					goto rude
				`	(Shoot the alien with your sidearm.)`
					goto deathshot
			label cotrans
			action
				set "asked about the Jibauni translators"

> 			`	"I am not authorized to give you that information. Your questions?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Yellow serpentine eyes glare dangerously at you, "I am not authorized to give you that information. Your questions?"`
```

				goto meetingquestions
			label lastisknown

> 			`	"Yes. We know about you, <first>, Captain of the <ship>. How have you come here, for we did not detect any purple sparks?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The alien snorts, causing a wall of wet hot hair to crash against you. "Yes. We know about you, <first>, Captain of the <ship>. How have you come here, for we did not detect any purple sparks?"`
```

			choice
				`	"I came through the wormhole. Do you mean to say you have not noticed it?"`
					goto wormholeentry
				`	"I came with a Jump Drive."`
					to display
						has "outfit (flagship installed): Jump Drive"
					goto jumpdriveentry
				`	"What do you mean, purple?"`
					goto purple
			label purple

> 			`	"Oh, it does not matter. A side note, I believe. But, to rephrase my question, how did you enter our space?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	 The creature bends it neck down so that it's massive face is level with your own, both yellow eyes staring directly in yours. Again the polite, incongruous voice drones out from the machine, "Oh, it does not matter. A side note, I believe. But, to rephrase my question, how did you enter our space?"`
```

			choice
				`	"An anomaly. The type I went through is commonly called a wormhole."`
					goto wormholeentry
				`	"Just my fancy Jump Drive."`
					goto jumpdriveentry
			label jumpdriveentry

> 			`	"Interesting," says the alien. "The only one who has ever done that before is an odd ship who seemed to come from the same general direction." It fixes you with an intent gaze. "There may be something similar between your species. The ship was pink. Seen one like it?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Interesting," says the alien, as it's large purple tongue darts between it's razor-sharp teeth. "The only one who has ever done that before is an odd ship who seemed to come from the same general direction." It fixes you with an intent gaze. "There may be something similar between your species. The ship was pink. Seen one like it?"`
```

				goto pinkship
			label rudeentry
			`	"There is an odd ship who seemed to come the way you did," says the alien as it fixes you with an intent gaze. "There may be something similar between your species. The ship was pink. Seen one like it?"`
			label pinkship
			choice
				`	"Yes, I have. They're probably Alphas."`
					to display
						has "event: liberation of Poisonwood"
					goto knownalphas
				`	"No, I've never seen one matching the description."`
					goto notseen
				`	"Of course. The person who pilots it is an Alpha. Shall I tell you what the story behind them is?"`
					to display
						has "event: liberation of Poisonwood"
					goto alphas
			label knownalphas
			`	"Great. But, let me ask you one question. Did you meet them on friendly terms? Or did you try to destroy their ships?"`
			choice
				`	"Why would I be friends with the ex-enslavers of humanity?"`
				`	"Oh, I and the Alphas are great friends. We even share technology!"`
					goto friendlyalpha
			label hostilealpha

> 			`	"If you need something to do, I have something. I have been looking for transport to <planet> in the <system> system, but so far no Jibauni captain has wanted to take Kanlanmo, which happens to be my name. I will explain, once we get there."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	It's small claws, covered in glistening scales, seem to tremble. "If you need something to do, I have something. I have been looking for transport to <planet> in the <system> system, but so far no Jibauni captain has wanted to take Kanlanmo, which happens to be my name. I will explain, once we get there."`
```

			choice
				`	"I'll take you."`
					accept
				`	"Of course I'd be happy to, but unfortunately there's no space on <ship> right now. I can come back later though."`
			action
				set "jibauni: will take kanlanmo later"
			`	"Good," says Kanlanmo. "Chances are, I still will not have found transport, so I will be waiting here next time you come."`
				decline
			label notseen

> 			`	"Good. In that case, I have another request for you. Can you take me to <planet> in the <system> system? I will mark it on your map, and explain more once we get there. Oh yes, and my name is Kanlanmo. Kanlanmo of the Jibauni."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Good." The word seems to slither out of the translator, and the alien's stance suddenly shifts, as though it is giving you more room, more respect. "In that case, I have another request for you. Can you take me to <planet> in the <system> system? I will mark it on your map, and explain more once we get there. Oh yes, and my name is Kanlanmo. Kanlanmo of the Jibauni."`
```

			choice
				`	"Of course! You can get on the <ship> right away!"`
					accept
				`	"Why?"`
					goto whychoice
				`	"I'm sorry, I can't take you now. Later maybe though."`
					decline
			label wormholeentry

> 			`	"Oh, we have seen it," says the alien. "But it does not let our ships though. The reason for this is unclear. but to matters of more importance. We have seen an alien ship in pink markings pass through. Have you seen it, or one like it?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"It is known to us," says the alien's voice sounds suddenly cool in the translator. "But it does not let our ships though. The reason for this is unclear. but to matters of more importance. We have seen an alien ship in pink markings pass through. Have you seen it, or one like it?"`
```

				goto pinkship
			label alphas
			`	You begin the story, telling everything you know about how the Alphas tried to enslave human space.`

> 			`	At the end, he says, "Wow. That is a long story. And I take it you are not on their side?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	It's yellow eyes seem to fervently dart  around you as you tell your story, as though it is seeking, hunting, the Alphas you are telling it about. Finally, at the end, the alien says, "Exciting. I take they are still your prey?"`
```

			choice

> 				`	"No, of course not."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"They are."`
```

				`	"Why, I've been friendly with them for years."`
					goto friendlyalpha
			label alphasoffer

> 			`	"Good. That just leaves one more matter to be wrapped up. Can you take me to <planet> in the <system> system? Kanlanmo of the Jibauni will be grateful."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"Good." The word seems to slither out of the translator, and the alien's stance suddenly shifts, as though it is giving you more room, more respect. "In that case, I have another request for you. Can you take me to <planet> in the <system> system? I will mark it on your map, and explain more once we get there. Oh yes, and my name is Kanlanmo. Kanlanmo of the Jibauni."`
```

			choice
				`	"Of course!"`
					accept
				`	"Why?"`
					goto whychoice
				`	"Nope, I am not going to. I can't go around transporting unknowns on my ship, after all."`
					decline
			label rude

> 			`	The alien announces, though to what you cannot see, "The stranger has been ignominiously impolite." It turns to you. "What do you say, 'weirdo'? Will you apologize? Or not, and see what happens?"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The alien's yellow eyes suddenly go wide, and it roars thunderously into the sky above you. A moment later the translator whirs, "The stranger has been ignominiously impolite." The alien stomps its foot and lowers its head so its eyes are in line with yours, it growls now so lowly you can barely hear it. "What do you say, 'weirdo'? Will you apologize? Or do you wish to become prey?"`
```

			choice
				`	"I apologize, and did not mean to insult you."`
					goto rudeentry
				`	"Why apologize to a bunch of dinky T-Rex's?"`

> 			`	The moment the last word is out of your mouth, the dinosaur lowers its hand. Suddenly, millions of miniature projectiles come hurtling through the air, shredding the <ship> and everything in it.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The moment the last word is out of your mouth, the dinosaur's claw twitches, and suddenly, millions of miniature projectiles come hurtling through the air, shredding the <ship> and everything in it.`
```

				die
			label deathshot
			`	The moment your hand touches your sidearm, you hear a whining noise. A huge missile comes down with a shriek, followed by another and another. The <ship> behind you is obliterated in a moment, leaving it a pile of smoldering ash. You are taken to jail and imprisoned for life.`
				die
			label friendlyalpha
			action
				"reputation: Jibauni" = -1000
				"reputation: Jibauni (Civilian)" = -1000
				"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = -1000

> 			`	"Really? In that case, we must ask you to leave our planet immediately and never come back. We will not destroy you this time; but do not let us see your face ever again or it will go the worse for you!"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The dinosaur's yellow eyes narrow and it slowly leans its tooth-filled face near. You can feel the creature's hot humid breath, as it utters a low menacing growl. The translator machine politely whines, "Really? In that case, we must regrettably ask you to leave our planet immediately and never come back. Unfortunately, if we see you again we will have to kill you. Apologies."`
```

				flee
			label whychoice
			action
				set "jibauni: first contact: why"

> 			`	"Because I have some business to transact, something about the Rebel Jibauni."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Kanlanmo eyes you warily. "Because I have some business to transact, in relation to the Rebel Jibauni."`
```

			choice
				`	"Who are the Rebel Jibauni?"`
				`	"Sounds good. I'll take you."`
					accept
				`	"No. If it has to do with another faction, my services are unavailable."`
					decline
			`	"They are, as the name might suggest, Jibauni who have split away from the real government. They are not very polite, and you definitely do not want to be on their side."`
			choice
				`	"Good. I'll take you."`
					accept
				`	"That's what you think. Well, I'm joining the Rebels, whatever you may say."`
					goto joinedrebels
				`	"No, I won't take you. Sorry."`
					decline
			label joinedrebels
			action
				"reputation: Jibauni" = -10
				"reputation: Jibauni (Civilian)" = -10
				"reputation: Jibauni (Rebel)" = 10
				set "jibauni: joined the rebels"

> 			`	"Very well; this is a disappointing end to a first contact. Goodbye, and never land here again until you have made reparations."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	The serpentine yellow eyes of an apex predator blink at you in what might be surprise, or frustration. Kanlanmo rears it's large head back up above you, and roar's irritably. A moment later you hear, "Very well; this is a disappointing end to a first contact. Goodbye, and never land here again until you have made reparations."`
```
